Welcome back in this section we're going to master the ins and outs of joining data to HVM out elements
using D-3 in this video will join data to existing page elements and also use D-3 to create new elements
on the fly.
In the next video we'll learn how to use D-3 to remove elements that no longer have any data attached
to them.
We'll also talk about more advanced ways to join data and elements together.
Finally in the third video we'll talk about updating elements when new data comes in and we'll learn
about D-3 is general update pattern.
Let's get started.
We'll begin with basic data joins and enter selection's.
Before we dive in though let's take a step back and try to get a better understanding of decreased purpose.
If you look at the D-3 Web site the first sentence describing the library says the D-3 JSA is a javascript
library for manipulating documents based on data.
But what exactly does that mean.
Let's take a look.
The biggest difference between interacting with the domino theory versus in vanilla javascript is that
D-3 provides us with a streamlined way to connect elements on the page to some set of underlying data.
This also allows us to more easily alter the look of elements on a page based on this data.
Let's take a look at an example.
As usual we'll begin with some simple issue.
Now this time for a page that displays movie quotes you can copy and paste this code into your favorite
text editor or just head over to the live site and hop into the chrome console.
In our example or storing the data for the quotes inside of our javascript we've got access to the quote
itself.
On with the movie The quote came from and the movie's release year and rating.
Let's see how we can use D-3 to add these clicks to the page.
The patterns for joining day to day elements and adding those elements to the page can be a little confusing
at first.
Let's first write out the code check that it works and then talk about what's happening.
Here's some code that styles the list a bit and as the movie quotes to the page
when we run this code we see that it works.
Now let's analyze this code line by line.
First we're using D-3 to select the Snowbird list in or restyling it a bit.
Nothing surprising there.
Things start to get a little weird in the next line we're telling D-3 to select all the list items inside
of the list but there aren't any list items inside of the list.
You might think that D-3 should return something like No from this function call but that's not how
D-3 rolls.
If you look at the return value from this select all we still get a D-3 Selection object.
As you might expect though the selection has no notes.
Let's move on to the next line here we're using the data method and passing an array of quotes.
This is where we're beginning to harness the power of D-3 state of mind.
What we're essentially saying is that we want to take each piece of data in the quotes array and attach
it to a dom element.
In this case NLI still might seem confusing since after all there aren't any allies to attach the data
to.
But if we take a look at the selection returned from that data you'll see that it has two new properties
enter and exit.
Let's focus on enter.
It has an array with five elements.
Each element is an Internet and attached to each node is a double underscore data property with some
movie quote data.
So what's going on here.
Essentially D-3 has created some placeholder notes for us and those nodes are bound to the data.
These elements don't exist anywhere in the dung.
But with a bit more work we can attach these elements to the page D-3 provides us with an entry method
that creates a D-3 selection with those entry nodes.
So that's what we're calling next.
Finally we can use the pen method on our entire selection to place our entire notes onto the page as
list items
in the very last line.
We're setting the text of each list item with the callback function.
This is a pattern we saw in an earlier video.
Now though we can talk more in depth about the structure of the callback when we pass a callback from
one of these methods.
The first parameter in that callback function will always refer to the data bound to the current element
by D-3 by convention.
Your argument is typically called D for data.
Should you need the index of that piece of data in the array of data.
It's made available to you.
The second argument in the callback in our example.
Each element in our quotes array is an object and each object has a quote property.
So by returning the quote inside of the callback degrees accessing the quote property in the data bound
to our new list item and using that data to set the entire text of the element.
This pattern can take some time to get used to but with a little practice you'll get comfortable with
it as it's one of the most common things you'll be doing with D-3.
Now that we know what we're doing let's make a couple other enhancements I'll refresh the page so that
we can start from the beginning this time.
Let's show the movie title in here as well as the quote.
Let's also add a bit more style to the list items.
And let's also make short quotes if you're bigger on the page.
I'll double the font size.
The quote is fewer than 25 characters.
As a side note if you're comfortable with as 2050 era functions a great use case for them is in these
three callbacks aero functions can really help clean up this code making it more compact and readable.
One last thing.
Now that these list items are on the page.
What if we want to select them later once they're in the dome we can select them with D-3 just like
we did in earlier videos.
No need to mess with data joins or enter selections.
Fortunately the list items are still bound to the quote data.
So if we want to style them based on the data we can do that at any point in the future.
To finish up let's colorable list items based on the movie rating.
First of all make an object that converts Raving's to colors.
Then also the background color list item based on a movie's rating.
Cool.
Because of the syntax mastering Gaina joins in D-3 takes practice.
Next video will get more practice by learning about exit selections.
I'll see you there.